A space trip.
=============

You arrive at the port several hours early. It was just a seaport less than a decade ago, and not much has changed visually. The space elevator they keep talking about on the news won't be ready for another decade, or ever if BABEL gets their way. You've heard that some planets have Passenger SSTOs that can operate out of normal airports, but the legislative caste are still sitting on their hands about lifting regulations prohibiting supersonic flight above populated land masses. The Starliner looks similar to those, but it's much to large to land anywhere but the water.

Terminal services are provided by an off-world company, but it's a different one than the one which operates the starliner. They have a contract with the Government and the Union to provide passenger handling, customs, and security services for all off-world flights. The entire operation is contained on a retrofitted passenger ferry that had been rusting on it's mournings for years before they bought it and repainted it. You present a boarding pass to the clerk, and walk on like a commuter about to take a trip across the bay. Once inside the ferry however, the modifications become more apparent. There are only a few dozen passengers, and instead of rows of seats, there is a long chain of medical checks and paperwork processing. All of this must be completed by the time the ferry reaches the Starliner moored in the outer harbour.

After checking your luggage, you are told to strip off your clothes. A machine scans your naked body, and then you are given a paper gown and a medical check up. The doctor, like all the people who work on this boat, is technically human, but like all off-worlders, his population diverged from yours many thousands of years ago. He might as well be an alien. As you are herded back into line for yet more paperwork, you notice that the offworlders are armed, and slightly on edge. Radical dissociationists, the news tells you, have been targeting offworlders in terror attacks.

After another battry of paperwork, you are sent into a changing room. Waiting for you is a space helmet, with your skinsuit folded up inside. 3d printed from your body scans while you were waiting in line. After changing into the skinsuit, you exit into a passenger lounge filled with several dozen equally embarrassed passengers, A handful of casually dressed people who must be the crew, and one angry looking man flanked by two security guards. When you ask, another passenger tells you that the man was from the last flight in, but didn't pass immigration, and is now being sent back. He came thousands of light years, but never even got to touch solid ground.

From here you get a better view of the starliner. It's almost as big as the cargo ships docked back in the harbor, but a lot less dense. Two columns of steam rise from it's rear as it's atomic engines crack the seawater into Hydrogen propellent for the ascent. To save mass, the reactors aren't fully shielded, so they ferry has to approach from the front. Both vessels mate nose to nose, and modular cargo containers are rolled onboard, followed by the crew, passengers, and lastly the refugee.

Once onboard, you are re-united with your baggage and shown to your seats. As the ferry cruises away and the engines switch from electrolysis to atmospheric flight mode, you watch a short video instructing you to remain in your seat and wear your helmet until the ascent is complete.