A Short Story
=============

Part one
--------

Prince Hopquin ascended the ziggurat and placed himself in front of the terminal. He did not particularly enjoy interacting with the great computer, preferring to delegate that task to the high priests, but today the computer had requested him specifically. "What is it oh great and powerful machine? What was so important that you had to call the crown prince down to the terminal in the middle of the night?" He asked as he rubbed his eyes lethargically. "I AM MEARLY EXICUTING INSTRUCTOINS SET BY YOUR GREAT GREAT GREAT GRANDFATHER, EMPOROR HOMSQUIN THE GREAT." The computer explained. "HE REQUESTED TO BE NOTIFIED WHEN A SPECIFIC ORDER WAS COMPLETED, UNFORTUNATELY HE HAS BEEN DEAD FOR MORE THAN TWO HUNDRED YEARS. AS HIS HEIR, YOU ARE THE NEW SUBJECT OF THIS ORDER."

"Homsquin gave you an order that took two hundred years to complete? What exactly was this order?" The prince asked, curious as to what could possibly take that long. The Computer was supposed to be fast and nigh omnipotent. It had allowed the royal family to rule the world unquestioned for over a thousand years. It's senses covered the entire globe, overseeing all afars with it's calculating mind, watching everything with it's network of satellites, and striking at any possible threat with lethal force. To the common folk it was nothing less than a god. Even the royal family who owned it, and the high priesthood who built it, only had a basic understanding of it's workings as it was capable of self maintenance and auto-evolution.

"THE ORDER GIVEN TO ME BY YOUR ANCESTOR TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY YEARS AGO, PRETAINED TO THE REMOVAL OF A POSSIBLE THREAT APROXIMATELY ONE HUNDRED LIGHT YEARS AWAY. IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE ORDERS I RELEASED A SALVO OF RELITIVISTIC KILL VEHICLES TO ELIMINATE A PLANET BELIEVED TO CONTAIN A TECHNOLOGICAL SPECIES WHICH MAY POSE A FUTURE THREAT. THESE VEHICLES WOULD HAVE REACHED THEIR TARGET ONE HUNDRED YEARS AGO, AND THE RESULTS OF THIS ATTACK WILL BE VISIBLE TONIGHT. YOUR ANCESTOR DID NOT COMPREHEND THE TIME SCALE INVOLVED AND REQUESTED A PERSONAL CONFIRMATION OF THREAT REMOVAL ONCE SUCH INFORMATION WAS AVALABLE. I AM NOW DELIVERING THIS CONFIRMATION TO YOU." The computer spoke.

"One hundred light years away? And you said relativistic, that means slightly slower than the speed of light right" The prince asked without expecting an answer, thinking out loud as he counted on his appendages. "I guess that makes sense. So you are going to show me what happened and then I can go back to my wives?" "CORRECT, VISUAL CONFIRMATION WILL BE AVALABLE IN NINETEEN SECONDS. AFTER WHICH YOUR PRESENSE WILL NO LONGER BE REQUIRED." The machine answered as a large star-field display appeared above the prince's head. In the center of the screen was a single pale blue dot. Over the next 19 the dot quickly expanded until it was clearly identifiable as a planet with blue oceans, green continents and white clouds. A world teeming with life. The World continued to grow larger at an alarming rate until it filled the entire screen, at which point the view switched from the lead RKV, to a probe which had been trailing the salvo. From this viewpoint the blue dot which was once a world flashed a bright white which briefly outshone the very star it had been orbiting. The flash filled the screen before fading away to nothingness, and when it was gone, the planet was no longer visible.

Prince Hopquin sank back in his chair to contemplate this destruction for a few moments before saying anything. "THE TARGET HAS BEEN ELIMINATED. THE PLANETARY CRUST WAS LIQUIFIED IN THE FIRST IMPACT, THE SUBSEQUENT STRIKES RESULTED IN COMPLETE DISTABLIZATION OF PLANETARY MANTLE AND CORE. THIS TASK IS COMPLETE, YOUR PRESENSE IS NO LONGER NESSARY." The machine interjected after allowing the prince a moment of silence. "D-do you know, do WE know, how many people were living on that planet?" The prince asked once he had gotten the courage to speak. "IT IS POSSIBLE TO ESTIMATE THE TOTAL POPULATION WITHIN AN ORDER OF MAGNATUDE BASED ON THEIR APPARENT ENERGY CONSUMPTION, PROVIDED WE MAKE CIRTAN ASUMPTIONS ON THEIR PHYSIOLOGY AND CIVILIZATIONAL MAKEUP. DO YOU REQUIRE SUCH AN ESTIMATION?" The machine replied. "I s-suppose." Was the prince's meek reply as he turned away from the terminal and began to descend the stairs. His Harem would be waiting for him, but he would not be interested in their affection now.

Part Two
--------


Part Three
----------